README.md, before:

# Customizing stock nodes in Houdini
 
A slight enhancement to the little Toadstorm Nerdblog Houdini tutorial at: https://www.toadstorm.com/blog/?p=1012

That tutorial goes through a way of attaching a callback handler to a node’s parameter.

The example extends the base (stock) Color SOP: changing the color value parameter of the node updates the color of the node in the network view.

![Screenshot 2026-01-21 at 12 17 53](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/310a2c40-e4e2-41dd-8e93-965bcde7961a)

This is done by providing Python scripts named with:

(1) the name of the node whose events you want to look at

(2) the name of the event itself

...like so:

nodeName_eventName.py

(Remember that all names are case sensitive.)

I think there are a couple of places where these scripts can be put for Houdini to find them, but (for better or worse) this is where I always put mine:

/Users/charlie/Library/Preferences/houdini/18.5/scripts/sop/color_OnCreated.py

/Users/charlie/Library/Preferences/houdini/18.5/scripts/sop/color_OnLoaded.py

Then, within those scripts, you further examine the information provided by Houdini to determine what you want to handle.

For this example, the event is `hou.nodeEventType.ParmTupleChanged`.

But there are plenty of others. Check out the Houdini Python docs: 

https://www.sidefx.com/docs/houdini/hom/hou/nodeEventType.html

Within the callback handler, the new color parameter is applied to the node color.

All well and good. However, one problem I noted is that the node color is not automatically set the first time it is dropped into the Network view.

Any subsequent updates to the color work fine, ie: clicking on the node and then adjusting the color picker(s), but not that initial one.

So, (assuming your default color is white – (1.0,1.0,1.0)), when you drop a new color node, the initial color of the node in the network view remains its default, which is a kind of light grey. It’s only (if and) when you go and edit the color that the node color updates.

So I just added the few lines necessary to the final example scripts (specifically, only the `OnCreated` handler) so that this now works the way you would expect it to.

Commit message:

Update README with Houdini event names and scripts
Added event names and updated script paths for Houdini.

README.md, after:

# Customizing stock nodes in Houdini
 
A slight enhancement to the little Toadstorm Nerdblog Houdini tutorial at: https://www.toadstorm.com/blog/?p=1012

That tutorial goes through a way of attaching a callback handler to a node’s parameter.

The example extends the base (stock) Color SOP: changing the color value parameter of the node updates the color of the node in the network view.

![Screenshot 2026-01-21 at 12 17 53](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/310a2c40-e4e2-41dd-8e93-965bcde7961a)

This is done by providing Python scripts named with:

(1) the name of the node whose events you want to look at

(2) the name of the event itself

...like so:

nodeName_eventName.py

(Remember that all names are case sensitive.)

The event names above are the ones from `Edit Operator Type Properties` `Scripts` tab:

![Screenshot 2026-01-21 at 12 46 55](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a8380113-8cd9-41d8-9394-e5d1c0a23577)

`
PreFirstCreate
Expressions
PythonModule
OnCreated
OnLoaded
OnUpdated
OnDeleted
PostLastDelete
OnInputChanged
OnNameChanged
OnInstall
OnUninstall
SyncNodeVersion
`

I think there are a couple of places where these scripts can be put for Houdini to find them, but (for better or worse) this is where I always put mine:

`/Users/charlie/Library/Preferences/houdini/18.5/scripts/sop/color_OnCreated.py`
`/Users/charlie/Library/Preferences/houdini/18.5/scripts/sop/color_OnLoaded.py`

Then, within those scripts, you further examine the information provided by Houdini to determine what you want to handle.

For this example, the event is `hou.nodeEventType.ParmTupleChanged`.

But there are plenty of others. Check out the Houdini Python docs: 

https://www.sidefx.com/docs/houdini/hom/hou/nodeEventType.html

Within the callback handler, the new color parameter is applied to the node color.

All well and good. However, one problem I noted is that the node color is not automatically set the first time it is dropped into the Network view.

Any subsequent updates to the color work fine, ie: clicking on the node and then adjusting the color picker(s), but not that initial one.

So, (assuming your default color is white – (1.0,1.0,1.0)), when you drop a new color node, the initial color of the node in the network view remains its default, which is a kind of light grey. It’s only (if and) when you go and edit the color that the node color updates.

So I just added the few lines necessary to the final example scripts (specifically, only the `OnCreated` handler) so that this now works the way you would expect it to.
